HMS was introduced to solve the complications coming from managing all the paper works of every patient associated with the various departments of hospitalization with confidentiality. HMS provides the ability to manage all the paperwork in one place, reducing the work of staff in arranging and analyzing the paperwork of the patients. HMS does many works like:



Maintain the medical records of the patient  

Maintain the contact details of the patient

Keep track of the appointment dates

Save the insurance information for later reference

Tracking the bill payments.



The advantages of HMS can be pinpointed to the following:



Time-saving Technology

Improved Efficiency by avoiding human errors

Reduces scope for Error

Data security and correct data retrieval made possible

Cost effective and easily manageable

Easy access to patient data with correct patient history

Improved patient care made possible

Easy monitoring of supplies in inventory

Reduces the work of documentation

Better Audit controls and policy compliance.


Problem Statement :


Lack of immediate retrievals: -
The information is very difficult to retrieve and to find particular information like- E.g. -
To find out about the patient’s history, the user has to go through various registers. This
results in in convenienceand wastage of time.
Lack of immediate information storage: -
The information generated by various transactions takes time and efforts to be stored at
right place.
Lack of prompt updating: -
Various changes to information like patient details or immunization details of child are
difficult to make as paper work is involved.
Error prone manual calculation: -
Manual calculations are error prone and take a lot of time this may result in incorrect
information. For example calculation of patient’s bill based on various treatments.
Preparation of accurate and prompt reports: -
This becomes a difficult task as information is difficult to collect from various register.







